---
title: "TLC Meeting - January 19, 2022"
linkTitle: "TLC - January 19, 2022"
date: 2022-01-19
---

Meetings are happening on the `#selenium-tlc` channel on [Selenium Slack](https://selenium.dev/support).

## Agenda
* Minor and patch versions. Ideally we want to include new features and bug fixes on minor 
  versions, and use patch versions only for bug fixes. A scenario where feature parity 
  is achieved across bindings for every minor release is desired.
* OperaDriver is not supporting W3C. We should probably delete all Opera classes from the 
  bindings, given that Opera can be driven via the appropriately versioned ChromeDriver by 
  specifying the location of the Opera browser.
* Should we truncate unnecessary portions of the stack trace returned by recent versions of 
  ChromeDriver?
  * We’ve raised the issue with Google, but they have not been very responsive to their 
    issue tracker in the past 6 months.
  * https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10195
* Update the `isDisplayed` atom to address the issue with Vue fragments, and generally reduce 
  the overhead so that the size of the script is not `45KB`.
  * https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/9668
* What do we want in 4.2 (topic coming from previous meeting)
  * Handling actions class methods - https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/9996
  * https://gist.github.com/titusfortner/716e108a813dbce601c25cb250c01925 from titusfortner
  * Chrome 97 will be released during the first week of January, seems we need to be aligned 
    to those releases as well


***

### Minor and patch versions
Each binding will do patch releases as needed and TLC members will be more active when it
comes to coordinate minor releases. It is possible that patch releases include updated
functionality next to bug fixes.

### Delete Opera classes from the bindings given that OperaDriver does not support W3C
If functionality is still working in Selenium 4, it will be deprecated for the next minor
release and removed in the minor release after that. If the functionality is broken, it will
be removed from the language binding without the need to deprecate it.

### Truncate unnecessary portions of the stack trace returned by recent versions of ChromeDriver?
TLC members decided that the stack trace output will be shown as it is, which has been the 
way it has been done always. If users raise issues about it, they should get redirected to the
ChromeDriver issue (so they can share their thoughts over there).

### Update the `isDisplayed` atom to address the issue with Vue fragments
[AutomatedTester][] will have a look at it and fix it as soon as possible. Long term, the idea
is to move the atoms to TypeScript and delete all the dead code (as most of the atoms' 
functionality should live in the browser drivers already).

### What do we want in 4.2 (topic coming from previous meeting)
We want to have https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/9996 implemented across bindings but
this needs more active coordination between team members. For now, it is ok to release parts of 
this functionality in a patch release given that the language binding needs to do that.

[AutomatedTester]: https://github.com/AutomatedTester/
